Hey everyone. Welcome back to Movie Recap.
My name is Silverra. Today I'm gonna show
you a 2017 Australian-French psychological
thriller-horror film called, Berlin Syndrome.
The film opens with Clare arriving in Berlin,
Germany, as a young female tourist. She walks
to her accommodation, a hostel with group
bunking rooms and spends the evening partying
with some people, possibly also tourists, on the
rooftop. She takes photos of the sunrise and in
the morning dresses and takes her backpack with
her out sightseeing. She purchases some clothes,
photo slides and takes photos in the street -
one of a woman airing a colorful sheet out an
apartment window. She visits a bookshop and takes
interest in a book of artworks. Leaving the shop,
she follows out a man and they meet on the
footpath waiting at a set of traffic lights.
He drops his belongings and Clare assists
him, after which a conversation sparks
where he casually asks why she's travelling
alone and offers her some strawberries.
Clare goes with this man, Andi, to see the public
garden where the strawberries grow. They talk and
get to know each other, Andi mentioning it's a
good place to "complicate life", Clare corrects
him "contemplate life". Clare ignores a call
from her mother. He drives her back to her
accommodation where they nearly kiss. She invites
him up for a drink at the bar and he declines.
The following day Clare ventures out sightseeing
again and looking for Andi who she finds in the
same bookshop looking at the book of artworks.
They spend the day together. He drives them back
to his place which is very quiet and desolate. His
upstairs apartment is tucked away behind a locked
building foyer, through a small enclosed
courtyard into the building block behind.
They spend the night and she talks
about how much she'd like to stay
rather than move onto her next destination
Dusseldorf. In the morning he leaves for work,
teaching at a local school. One student, Franka
details a book the class was asked to read.
Clare gets dressed, packs up a day pack and
goes to leave discovering she is locked into
the apartment. She cannot find a spare key and
also finds the windows don't open. Believing this
an accident she hangs in the apartment, making
herself some food and waits for Andi to return.
He arrives home where Clare explains she
couldn't leave and he realises he forgot
to leave a key for her which he finds in his
pocket. She jokingly suggests "did you lock me
in?" and he playfully replies "yes sure, but
next time I'll tie you to the bed" and they
have meat injection game in the shower. They
go out clubbing and she stays a second night.
In the morning when he leaves for work he points
out the key he's left for her on the dresser.
She casually pokes around the apartment while
cooking herself breakfast and finds the book of
artworks from the bookshop. She opens it to her
favorite page and finds a photo of her asleep
with the word 'mine' written on her shoulder,
resting in the pages. Bothered by this she also
realises her necklace with her ring is missing.
Her mother had given her the ring to "hock and
return home if she gets into trouble" but it also
has sentimental value. She searches the apartment
and begins to panic, discovering the key won't
open the door, her mobile phone has no service,
the other internal door is also locked, and none
of the available windows open. Feeling in danger
now she tries to break the window with a chair
and finds a second, reinforced panel behind.
When Andi returns she's waiting at the door and
asks to leave but he won't let her past. He locks
the door and confronts her about the broken
window, telling her casually if she tries to
break the window he will have to border them up.
Now understanding the weight of the situation she
pleads for him to let her go but he dismisses her
concerns and hands her flowers and asks if she
likes pasta. Frustrated at his insanity she bursts
violently into a rage trying to kick and punch
him but he subdues her and ties her to the bed
explaining that no one can hear her screams, the
buildings are abandoned. The camera pans out to
reveal her screams are not heard from the street.
The following day Andi visits his
father who asks why he was late.
Andi says he met someone and tells him
about Clare. His father asks about Natalie,
the girl he has been seeing and Andi
tells him she returned to Canada.
Andi returns to the apartment where he has
continued to tie Clare to the bed on a plastic
sheet. She is untied for a shower as she has
urinated on herself, and finds clumps of long
blonde hair in the drain, realising there has
been someone here before her. He brings her home
a puzzle and enthusiastically tells her, he told
his father about her and has texted her Mum that
she is okay. Clare threatens that her mum will
realise the truth. He continued to ignore her.
The next day Andi leaves for work, leaving Clare
untied and free to roam the apartment as she
cannot escape. We see him lock the keys in
a lock-box and leave it on a shelf in the
building corridor. Clare searches the apartment,
finding a screwdriver under the couch. At work,
Andi is annoyed at a teacher who uses
his cup from the communal kitchen,
uncomfortable the woman
empties it and washes it out.
He returns home to find Clare doing the puzzle,
he helps her and she takes the opportunity to
stab the screwdriver through his hand resting
on the tabletop, pinning him to the table.
She grabs the keys and escapes down the stairwell
and across the courtyard, but a clunky door jams
and Andi catches her and crushes her hand in the
door as she escapes through the front building,
breaking her finger. He carries a
passed out Clare back to the apartment.
The following day he meets his father. When
he returns home Clare tries to return calmness
to the hostile situation. She continues to
plead to him and tells him she misses her Mum
but Andi tells her, there's no point missing
something you won't get back, and that she
has him instead. Andi constantly takes photos of
Clare in odd and disturbed poses, usually naked.
The next day Andi watches the female student,
Franka in gym class, aroused. Meanwhile,
Clare attempts to pick the door locks with a
paperclip, snapping one off in the internal door,
and worries Andi will discover her attempt. We see
that Andi has locked all the sharp tools in the
lock-box with the key. He continues to taunt and
intimidate Clare both mentally and emotionally,
moving between affection, possessiveness
and cruelty. Andi is washing Clare in the
shower when Franka knocks at the door. Andi
threatens Clare that if she says anything,
he will kill the girl. Andi answers
the door and Franka flirts with him,
stating she followed him home. Seeing
Clare standing in a towel in the hallway,
Andi tells her she's his girlfriend and is cruel
to her so she leaves. Back inside the apartment
Clare enquires about the girl, asking her name,
and Andi cuts her hair, again photographing her.
Later he discovers the internal door
won't open and gets cross with Clare.
We see time pass, it's now Christmas. Clare
is living in terror, but as Andi continues to
toy with her she begins to unravel and act out,
Andi at one point asking her to be 'normal' and
gets violent in his frustration at her behavior,
leaving to stay with his father. The power in the
apartment goes out and Clare is stuck for days
without power. It's freezing cold and she eats
the little food she finds. Andi's father dies and
upset, he waits a few days to call the caretaker,
remaining in his father's house. Clare finds
another girls toenail trimming under the bed.
Clare is relieved when Andi returns
to the apartment a few days later.
Andi was unaware of the power outage and
tells him "she thought he wasn't coming back".
She comforts him about his father's passing and
they continue to have another meat injection game.
Clare begins warming to the situation, cleaning,
cooking, making an effort with her appearance,
playing music. Andi gives her a book and his
father's dog for Christmas. Clare asks the details
of why he chose her and he explains he saw her in
the street looking at the woman airing the sheet
out the window, unveiling that he had planned
their meeting in the bookshop. Clare asks about
the previous girl, and we see a sudden shift in
his affection for Clare, annoyed at her questions.
Sometime later, he takes her from the apartment
into an isolated forest. He's carrying an axe.
While Clare appreciates being outside finally
he lifts his axe behind her. But a young boy
shouts and runs over, interrupting, asking
to help his brother who has hurt his leg.
Surprised at their presence, Andi is
distracted and Clare seizes an opportunity
to try to alert the other boy, but he doesn't
understand english and is frightened by her
urgency. Andi notices and is angry at Clare.
When the mother collects her children,
Andi leads Clare back to the car and forces
her into the boot, returning to the apartment.
Andi now annoyed at Clare's presence and jealous
of her relationship with the dog, takes the dog
for a walk and doesn't return with it, stating it
'ran away'. Clare is alone again and heartbroken.
While Andi attends a New Year's Eve
party, Clare breaks into the locked room,
finding his camera, a massage chair, and a photo
album of Clare in captivity. Clare also finds an
album of another girl, blonde, bound and abused
in the same way. Andi attempts to lure another
young female tourist, sparking conversation and
using the same miss-wording he used with Clare,
confusing 'contemplate life' with 'compensate
life', but the girl leaves with her friend.
Back in the kitchen, Clare notices a torchlight
shining from another apartment across the
courtyard and alerts the person to her distress,
screaming and smashing the repaired window pane.
A man reaches the apartment door
nearly freeing Clare, but Andi returns
and kills him with a hammer. Andi taunts
Clare that it is her fault the man is dead
and forces her to help wrap up the body which
he burns in the coal pit in courtyard outside.
The following day Andi cleans the
blood and boards up the windows,
punishing Clare. He notices a missing persons
ad in the local paper, with Clare's picture and
flustered asks Clare to pack her bags because
he is fumigating the apartment. Clare notices
student workbooks on the table that Andi
is grading. She purposefully burns her hand
and while Andi grabs some cream from the
bathroom, she stashes away Franka's workbook.
The following morning Andi tips out all
the drinks and takes his and Clare's bags,
leaving Clare behind in the apartment.
Downstairs he stashes Clare's bag in
the basement and turns off the pipes, leaving
Clare without water. At school he hands out the
workbooks and Franka finds a photo of Clare
bound and gagged slipped between the pages.
Without drawing attention to her discovery,
Franka excuses herself from the classroom
and flees promptly on her bike. The photo is found
on the floor by the other students and panicked,
Andi rushes back to the apartment, getting stuck
in traffic. Andi finds Franka's bike outside the
front building and sees where she has broken in
through a basement window. He finds the hammer and
the lock-box open in the courtyard, and a window
in the building block open. The apartment door is
open and Clare is gone. He follows muddy footsteps
up the stairwell and we see him follow them past
Clare hiding in a stairwell cupboard. Just as
he reaches the room where Franka is hiding,
Clare calls from downstairs, luring him back
into the apartment. Once he is distracted inside,
Clare manages to slip out and lock the
apartment door with Andi now trapped inside.
A wave of euphoric relief washes over Clare
as she realizes she is finally free from
the apartment and Andi. Andi now pleading
for Clare to free him from the apartment,
she screams in victory, chucking the
keys against the outside of the door,
taunting Andi. She collects Franka and has found
a bag with her passport and her mother's ring.
The final shots are of Andi relaxing in
his massage chair and Clare riding in a
car through Berlin, passing tourists
sightseeing, enjoying her freedom.
Thanks for watching. See
you in another Movie Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click the bell
icon to get new video update.
Have a nice day.